README.md, before:

# HyDia: FHE-based Facial Matching with Hybrid Approximations and Diagonalization

### PETS 2025 Artifact – Quick‑Start README

This repository contains the full artifact (code + environment) for our PETS 2025 paper titled "HyDia: FHE-based Facial Matching with Hybrid Approximations and Diagonalization".  
Follow the three short steps below to **build the Docker image, run the five face‑matching approaches, and capture their latency/parameter output** in a single log file.

---

## 1 · Clone the repository

```
git clone https://github.com/n7koirala/image_matching.git
cd image_matching
```

## 2 · Build the Docker image

```
docker build --tag popets2025-hydia .
```

- **Installs all system prerequisites on top of Ubuntu 22.04
(build‑essential, cmake, libomp, etc.).

- **Fetches and compiles OpenFHE v1.2.3 (pinned tag).

- **Compiles the project into ```/opt/image_matching/build```.

- **Copies a helper script ```run_artifact.sh``` and sets it as the container’s
ENTRYPOINT.


## 3 · Run the smoke test & capture output

```
docker run --rm popets2025-hydia | tee ./smokeTestLog.txt
```

The above command will execute all five approaches described in the paper and store the result (latency statistics for the Membership and Index scenarios, FHE parameters used, and basic correctness checks etc.) under ```smokeTestLog.txt```.

## 4 · Using a larger database (optional)

```run_artifact.sh``` inside the container will use a pre-generated small encrypted database of 2<sup>10</sup> facial‐feature vectors. Optionally, the database size can be easily changed to a higher number (up to 2<sup>20</sup>) after that specific amount of vectors are generated using the ```generate_data.sh``` script located under ```/tool```. For instance to generate 2<sup>15</sup>, run ```generate_data.sh "2_15.dat" $((2**15))".
Then, edit ```run_artifact.sh``` to update your changes.



## OLD README


Execute all five approaches described in the paper:

## Introduction

Welcome to the **HyDia** project! This repository contains a comprehensive implementation of two image matching algorithms. The **Membership Scenario** determines whether a query image possesses any matches among a database of images. The **Index Scenario** determines which specific database images, if any, match with a query image.

The primary goal of this project is to provide a robust framework for the comparison and matching of facial representation vectors using advanced cryptographic techniques, specifically homomorphic encryption.

<!For theoretical details of this implementation, refer to this document: [Image Matching Documentation](https://www.overleaf.com/read/cbqxkzbbxjvd#ea7444).>

## Features

- **Homomorphic Encryption**: Leverages the OpenFHE library to perform secure computations on encrypted data.
- **Parallel Processing**: Supports parallel processing to enhance performance.

## Requirements

- **C++ Compiler**: Ensure you have a modern C++ compiler that supports C++17 or later.
- **CMake**: Build system generator (version 3.10 or later).
- **OpenFHE Library**: For homomorphic encryption operations.
- **Standard Libraries**: Standard libraries for image processing and mathematical computations.

## Installation

### Step-by-Step Guide

1. **Install Dependencies**:
    Ensure you have all necessary dependencies installed:
    - OpenFHE
    - CMake
    - Standard C++ libraries

2. **Clone the Repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/n7koirala/image_matching.git
    cd image_matching
    ```

3. **Build the Project**:
    ```bash
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    ```

3. **Set up Experimental Datasets and Tracking File**:
    ```bash
    ../tools/setup_experiment.sh
    ```

## Usage

### Generating Experimental Datasets

To generate an experimental dataset, run the following script from the `build` folder:
```bash
../tools/generate_data.sh [FILENAME] [SIZE]
```

Note that the dataset will be automatically placed in the `test` folder. For example, to generate a dataset with 1024 database vectors located at `/test/2_10.dat`, try:
```bash
../tools/generate_data.sh "2_10.dat" $((2**10))
```

Alternatively, to automatically create a range of test datasets efficiently using parallelism, run the following script from the `build` folder:
```bash
../tools/gen_all_datasets.sh
```


### Running Experiments

To run the image matching application from the `build` folder, use the following command in your terminal:

```bash
./ImageMatching ../test/[FILENAME] [APPROACH]
```

The `[FILENAME]` parameter must correspond to an existing file generated by the 

The `[APPROACH]` parameter determines which algorithm is used to perform the encrypted facial matching upon the provided dataset. The possibilities for this parameter are given below:

| Parameter | Experimental Approach                     |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------|
| 1         | Literature Baseline Approach              |
| 2         | GROTE Approach (Baseline + Group Testing) |
| 3         | Blind-Match Approach                      |
| 4         | HERS Approach                             |
| 5         | HyDia Approach (Ours)                     |

For instance, try:
```bash
./ImageMatching ../test/2_10.dat 1
```


This will execute the main application, showcasing both image matching algorithms, more specifically their encryption, matching, and decryption steps.


## Configuration

### Parameters

The application can be configured using various parameters defined in the source code. Key parameters include:

- **Similarity Match Threshold**: Set the cosine similarity value above which vectors are considered to be matching.
- **Comparison Depth**: Set the multiplicative depth to be used by the comparison-approximating function.
- **Alpha-Norm Depth**: Set the multiplicative depth to be used by the alpha-norm maximum approximation in the group-testing approach.
- **CPU Cores**: Set the maximum number of CPU cores to be allotted to the enroller, receiver, and sender in multi-threaded operations.
- **Security Level**: Configure the security level of the CKKS scheme.
- **Scaling Mod Size**: Configure the size for the scaling modulus of the CKKS scheme.

### Example Configuration

```cpp
// include/config.h
const double MATCH_THRESHOLD = 0.85;
const size_t COMP_DEPTH = 10;
const size_t ALPHA_DEPTH = 2;
const size_t MAX_NUM_CORES = 32;
```

```cpp
// src/main.cpp
CCParams<CryptoContextCKKSRNS> parameters;
parameters.SetSecurityLevel(HEStd_128_classic);
parameters.SetScalingModSize(45);
parameters.SetScalingTechnique(FIXEDMANUAL);
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community to enhance the functionality and performance of the image matching project. Here’s how you can contribute:

1. **Fork the Repository**: Click on the fork button at the top right of the repository page.
2. **Create a Branch**: Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix.
    ```bash
    git checkout -b feature-name
    ```
3. **Make Changes**: Implement your changes in the new branch.
4. **Submit a Pull Request**: Push your changes to your forked repository and submit a pull request to the main repository.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

```text
MIT License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

---

This README provides a comprehensive guide to understanding, installing, and contributing to the image matching project. For more detailed information, please refer to the source code and comments within the repository.

Commit message:

added accuracy experiments to the smoke test

README.md, after:

# HyDia: FHE-based Facial Matching with Hybrid Approximations and Diagonalization

### PETS 2025 Artifact – Quick‑Start README

This repository contains the full artifact (code + environment) for our PETS 2025 paper titled "HyDia: FHE-based Facial Matching with Hybrid Approximations and Diagonalization".  
Follow the three short steps below to **build the Docker image, run the five face‑matching approaches, and capture their latency/parameter output** in a single log file.

---

## 1 · Clone the repository

```
git clone https://github.com/n7koirala/image_matching.git
cd image_matching
```

## 2 · Build the Docker image

```
docker build --tag popets2025-hydia .
```

- **Installs all system prerequisites on top of Ubuntu 22.04
(build‑essential, cmake, libomp, etc.).

- **Fetches and compiles OpenFHE v1.2.3 (pinned tag).

- **Compiles the project into ```/opt/image_matching/build```.

- **Copies a helper script ```run_artifact.sh``` and sets it as the container’s
ENTRYPOINT.


## 3 · Run the smoke test & capture output

```
docker run --rm popets2025-hydia | tee ./smokeTestLog.txt
```

The above command will execute all five approaches described in the paper and store the result (latency statistics for the Membership and Index scenarios, FHE parameters used, and basic correctness checks etc.) under ```smokeTestLog.txt```.

## 4 · Using a larger database (optional)

```run_artifact.sh``` inside the container will use a pre-generated small encrypted database of 2<sup>10</sup> facial‐feature vectors. Optionally, the database size can be easily changed to a higher number (up to 2<sup>20</sup>) after that specific amount of vectors are generated using the ```generate_data.sh``` script located under ```/tool```. For instance to generate 2<sup>15</sup>, run ```generate_data.sh "2_15.dat" $((2**15))".
Then, edit ```run_artifact.sh``` to update your changes.



## OLD README


Execute all five approaches described in the paper:

## Introduction

Welcome to the **HyDia** project! This repository contains a comprehensive implementation of two image matching algorithms. The **Membership Scenario** determines whether a query image possesses any matches among a database of images. The **Index Scenario** determines which specific database images, if any, match with a query image.

The primary goal of this project is to provide a robust framework for the comparison and matching of facial representation vectors using advanced cryptographic techniques, specifically homomorphic encryption.

<!For theoretical details of this implementation, refer to this document: [Image Matching Documentation](https://www.overleaf.com/read/cbqxkzbbxjvd#ea7444).>

## Features

- **Homomorphic Encryption**: Leverages the OpenFHE library to perform secure computations on encrypted data.
- **Parallel Processing**: Supports parallel processing to enhance performance.

## Requirements

- **C++ Compiler**: Ensure you have a modern C++ compiler that supports C++17 or later.
- **CMake**: Build system generator (version 3.10 or later).
- **OpenFHE Library**: For homomorphic encryption operations.
- **Standard Libraries**: Standard libraries for image processing and mathematical computations.

## Installation

### Step-by-Step Guide

1. **Install Dependencies**:
    Ensure you have all necessary dependencies installed:
    - OpenFHE
    - CMake
    - Standard C++ libraries

2. **Clone the Repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/n7koirala/image_matching.git
    cd image_matching
    ```

3. **Build the Project**:
    ```bash
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    ```

3. **Set up Experimental Datasets and Tracking File**:
    ```bash
    ../tools/setup_experiment.sh
    ```

## Usage

### Generating Experimental Datasets

To generate an experimental dataset, run the following script from the `build` folder:
```bash
../tools/generate_data.sh [FILENAME] [SIZE]
```

Note that the dataset will be automatically placed in the `test` folder. For example, to generate a dataset with 1024 database vectors located at `/test/2_10.dat`, try:
```bash
../tools/generate_data.sh "2_10.dat" $((2**10))
```


### Latency Experiments

To run the latency experiments upon the image matching application, navigate to the `build` folder and use the following command in your terminal:

```bash
./ImageMatching ../test/[FILENAME] [APPROACH]
```

The `[FILENAME]` parameter must correspond to an existing file generated by the above scripts.

The `[APPROACH]` parameter determines which algorithm is used to perform the encrypted facial matching upon the provided dataset. The possibilities for this parameter are given below:

| Parameter | Experimental Approach                     |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------|
| 1         | Literature Baseline Approach              |
| 2         | GROTE Approach (Baseline + Group Testing) |
| 3         | Blind-Match Approach                      |
| 4         | HERS Approach                             |
| 5         | HyDia Approach (Ours)                     |

For instance, try:
```bash
./ImageMatching ../test/2_10.dat 1
```

This will execute the main application, showcasing both image matching algorithms, more specifically their encryption, matching, and decryption steps.

### Accuracy Experiments

To run the accuracy experiments upon the image matching application, navigate to the `build` folder and use the following command in your terminal:

```bash
./ImageMatchingAccuracy [SUBJECT_INDEX] [APPROACH]
```

The `[SUBJECT_INDEX]` parameter determines which facial template vector is used as the query vector. The query dataset includes 50 randomly sampled facial template vectors which can be used, therefore this parameter must be an integer in the range 0-49.

The `[APPROACH]` parameter determines which algorithm is used to perform the encrypted facial matching upon the provided dataset. The possibilities for this parameter are given below:

| Parameter | Experimental Approach                     |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------|
| 1         | Literature Baseline Approach              |
| 2         | GROTE Approach (Baseline + Group Testing) |
| 3         | Blind-Match Approach                      |
| 4         | HERS Approach                             |
| 5         | HyDia Approach (Ours)                     |

For instance, try:
```bash
./ImageMatching 0 5
```

This experiment performs the designated approach upon the FRGC 2.0 dataset, reporting the number of true/false positives and negatives produced by the approach. The experiment also reports the number of true/false positives and negatives produced by the facial feature extractor without any encryption, for purposes of comparison.

## Configuration

### Parameters

The application can be configured using various parameters defined in the source code. Key parameters include:

- **Similarity Match Threshold**: Set the cosine similarity value above which vectors are considered to be matching.
- **Comparison Depth**: Set the multiplicative depth to be used by the comparison-approximating function.
- **Alpha-Norm Depth**: Set the multiplicative depth to be used by the alpha-norm maximum approximation in the group-testing approach.
- **CPU Cores**: Set the maximum number of CPU cores to be allotted to the enroller, receiver, and sender in multi-threaded operations.
- **Security Level**: Configure the security level of the CKKS scheme.
- **Scaling Mod Size**: Configure the size for the scaling modulus of the CKKS scheme.

### Example Configuration

```cpp
// include/config.h
const double MATCH_THRESHOLD = 0.85;
const size_t COMP_DEPTH = 10;
const size_t ALPHA_DEPTH = 2;
const size_t MAX_NUM_CORES = 32;
```

```cpp
// src/main.cpp
CCParams<CryptoContextCKKSRNS> parameters;
parameters.SetSecurityLevel(HEStd_128_classic);
parameters.SetScalingModSize(45);
parameters.SetScalingTechnique(FIXEDMANUAL);
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community to enhance the functionality and performance of the image matching project. Here’s how you can contribute:

1. **Fork the Repository**: Click on the fork button at the top right of the repository page.
2. **Create a Branch**: Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix.
    ```bash
    git checkout -b feature-name
    ```
3. **Make Changes**: Implement your changes in the new branch.
4. **Submit a Pull Request**: Push your changes to your forked repository and submit a pull request to the main repository.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

```text
MIT License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

---

This README provides a comprehensive guide to understanding, installing, and contributing to the image matching project. For more detailed information, please refer to the source code and comments within the repository.
